# GutMicrobiota_SerumElements_BloodPressureDuringPregnancy
The study comprehensively described the interrelationships between gut microbiota, serum elements and blood pressure (BP) during pregnancy, and firstly investigated mediating roles of gut microbiota.

Abnormal BP during pregnancy can lead to unfavorable health consequences, and the gut microbiota has identified as a pivotal regulator of BP. Effects of miscellaneous environmental factors on gut microbiota have been previously studied, and daily dietary intake could readily expose hosts to elements. Moreover, many of the elements to which people are routinely exposed exert impacts on BP status during pregnancy. Therefore, gut microbiota may mediate the impacts of elements on BP during pregnancy, which necessitates further population-based evidence.

Based on a prospective cohort study, 733 pregnant women were finally included. Repetitive BP measurements and trajectories were identified to better capture the long-term course of BP during pregnancy. Firstly, consistent associations between gut microbial features and BP were observed using combined statistical strategy, including single time point analysis, repetitive measurement analysis, and group comparison analysis. For example, negative associations of alpha diversity and co-abundance groups 2 (CAG2) with BP levels and trajectories were repeatedly observed. Besides, associations of serum elements with BP levels and trajectories were firstly described using combined statistical methods. Moreover, the associations of serum elements with gut microbial features, including alpha diversities, single bacteria at genus level, and CAG, were thoroughly explored. In addition, Bayesian kernel machine regression (BKMR) analysis was employed to assess the potential nonlinear and interactive effects of serum elements with microbial features and BP.

Finally, mediation analysis pointed out that Tl could reduce the relative abundance of CAG2, while Rb could enhance Pielou's evenness, both contributing to varied BP levels and trajectories. The mediation roles of gut microbiota between serum elements and BP during pregnancy were firstly described, with microbial features related to CAG and community richness and evenness playing significant mediation effects. The findings suggested promoting the overall structure and diversity of gut microbiota as potential approach to regulate element-impacted BP, rather than targeting individual bacterial species.
